Thank you for subscribing to Cat Facts!
Jools is the best cat.
While you humans have 206 bones, cats on average have 244. It ranges between 230-250 depending on how long a cat's tail is and how many toes the cat has.
Adult cats have 30 teeth, while kittens have 26.
A house cat is genetically 95.6% tiger.
Cats can run around 48 kph (30 mph), but only over short distances. A house cat could beat superstar runner Usain Bolt in the 200 meter dash.
Cats can jump 5 times their height!
An adult cat's brain is approximately 5 cm (2 inches) long, weighs 30 grams, and has nearly twice the amount of neurons in the cerebral cortex as a dog's.
Males are more likely to be left pawed, while females and more likely to be right pawed. Some are ambidextrous.
A cat's tongue contains a number of backward facing hooks known as filiform papillae. These rough tongues can lick bones clean of any bits of meat.
A cat's vomeronasal organ allows them to taste scents in the air!
Each cat's nose is unique, much like human fingerprints.
Neutered males live 62% longer than un-neutered cats, and spayed females live 39% longer than un-spayed females
Between 2002 and 2012, the average lifespan of a cat increased by a year.
Cat whiskers are the same width as their body!
Cats walk like camels and giraffes, both right feet then both left feet.
Cats sleep 12-16 hours per day, and spend 1/3 of their awake hours grooming.
Cats can dream!
Grooming stimulates blood flow to the skin, regulates body temperature, and helps the cat relax.
Cats mark you as their territory by rubbing their faces and bodies against you, marking you with their scent.
If your cat approaches you with a straight, almost vibrating tail, this means that it is extremely happy to see you.
When your cat shows their belly, it is a sign of trust and a relaxed cat. This is not typically an invite for a belly rub.
A cat's rear end in your face is a gesture of friendship.
A cat kneading means it is happy.
Draping their tail over you means the cat thinks you're their friend!
In the wild, only kittens meow. Adult meowing is a behavior cats developed to communicate with humans.
A cat can have up to 100 different vocalizations.
A cat's purr vibrates at a frequency of 25 to 150 hertz, which is the same frequency at which muscles and bones repair themselves.
Grimalkin is an archaic word for "cat", deriving from the color grey and the female name Maud.
An ailurophile is a person who loves cats. Ailurophobes are not allowed in this chat.
There are more dog owners than cat owners in the United States, but there are more pet cats than pet dogs.